Precondition of the phenomena.
The phenomena is not necessary for phenomena to exist nor does the contingency of phenomena need to exist for a metaphysical world:

In a metaphysical world, the possibility of which forms, operations, and modes exist in which one can phenomenally think of is infinite yet a finite number of possible worlds may only appear when one thinks of the phenomena that could be possible in all worlds.
There is no real common denominator for each phenomena (or supposed phenomena other than our own) that we can conclude. The phenomena includes phenomenal measurements of the appearance of our world but cannot itself be measured by objective terms or metrics.
We start with the only phenomena that we can look at: our own. One must question if there are primitive intuitions such as the intuition of space or intuition of time as we do not remember knowing these. This must then have a basis that does not have primordial intuitions but of common intuitions that we use on a relatively average basis. If the intuitions of time and space are not primitive, they are at minimum later learned as intuitions through experience. We learn to split these two concepts within quantitative terms such as the index of distance and intervals and the qualitative concepts of angle, direction, speed and continuity through language and ideas also learned through experience. 
Since the foundation of the phenomenon must come from the similarities of the average and everyday experience, we can gather that most cognition may ontologically include the form of object (its existence within our "sensory flux"), the mode and state of the object (the spatial context that comes with its existence), and the processes and operation of the object (the temporal context of its current existence). With this, it builds up what one can call the phenomenal experience sin noumena. What we live in would be called the physical world or what it should be called as the representation of the metaphysical "substrate", yet this is not the substrate itself. The phenomenal experience of the substrate is only a human interface of what the substrate actually is, whether it be purely physical, ideal, coded, or in hoops of transcendental things and flux and mixes of anything or everything. The one thing that the substrate cannot be is void, null, or nothing as it should be prescribed that the phenomena must be hosted on something rather than pure nothing.
Because, in whatever way one can imagine the form and operations of the substrate that (in turn) creates the phenomenal experiences, there is still the thing of form and operation that translates to our perceptions of these. In chaos and order of the substrate (which in this case refers to substrate with phenomenal relativity for measurements that one thinks is less or more structured) will be considered an undetermined flux that ranges from near chaotic to near stability and from minimal to variable differences of the flux. In these matters of the substrate, it will then be noted that the inference of operations of the flux will be near infinite as no particular substrate can be verifiably more real than the other without inferring that our illusion of the substrate should and does align more with the actuality of the substrate.
In whatever way one can deduce their own phenomenality, the process should resemble reducing consciousness to cognition and memory in the span of temporality, cognition and memory gathering its "data" through temporal means from either abstract ideation or from the recognitions of the physical world, and, in the terms of abstract ideation, recognition of the concepts' forms, operations, and states and its primitive concepts, and in terms of recognition of the physical world, antecedent of recognition, the actual sensations: qualia's quality and the plurality of qualia of the moment. Even in this setting, the qualia must derive from something not yet formed or processed by the phenomena.
This antecedent of the experiences can be considered noise but not actual random noise or anything with noise-ness; it is in fact noiseless. It could also be considered structure with no appearance of structure: it has not yet reached the phenomena and yet requires the minimal amount of structure to "exist" in the phenomena. It can be considered those two least before it can be merely yet closely considered unintelligible non-voidness: to us it is unintelligible as it is sin structure as it is also mere noise yet it is not nothingness nor completely structureless and chaotic randomness.
In this foundation of the experiences, the primitive modals can be deduced. In the scope of history, these modals may be of the perceptions and phenomenal language, yet, verily, the contingency of existence exists as does non-nothingness as is explained by the existence of phenomenon, the contingency of consistency and order exist  as is commonly found through reasoning itself, and again by the existence of the phenomenon. It should be deduced that without existence, one would not be able to reason that thing-ness exists and without consistency, one would not be able to reason coherently. 
//speak of modals, etc. The substrate itself is not able to be categorized by human perception or reason (we can think of it as now a super positioned possibility of either dimensioned or dimensionless, traditional-linear, relative, or spatially-dimension time, physical or ideal or computed world, all equally "real" in the sense that it is unknowable to know which substrate world aligns with the inferred substrate world). The "cross" of the raw givenness (in this sense, the actual substrate does not cross anything. As the phenomenal world transcends from the procession of the substrate, so does a "raw givenness" transcend once what we would call our "senses" pick up on it) 
